# Climate Change and Impacts in Africa

According to the [United Nations](https://www.un.org/en/climatechange/what-is-climate-change), Climate change refers to long-term shifts in temperatures and weather patterns. Such shifts can be natural, due to changes in the sun’s activity or large volcanic eruptions. But since the 1800s, **human activities** have been the main driver of climate change, primarily due to the burning of fossil fuels like coal, oil, and gas.

The consequences of climate change now include, among others, intense droughts, water scarcity, severe fires, rising sea levels, flooding, melting polar ice, catastrophic storms, and declining biodiversity.

You work for a Non-governmental organization tasked with reporting the state of climate change in Africa at the upcoming African Union Summit. The head of analytics has provided you with [IEA-EDGAR CO2 dataset](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cNhVUPKYP79AayGJp89_tXCJmHoxQO4cwiaseSziwbY/edit#gid=191680117) which you will clean, combine and analyze to create a report on the state of climate change in Africa. You will also provide insights on the impact of climate change on African regions (with four countries, one from each African region, as case studies). 

## Dataset

*The dataset, IEA-EDGAR CO2, is a component of the EDGAR (Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric Research) Community GHG database version 7.0 (2022) including or based on data from IEA (2021) Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Energy, www.iea.org/statistics, as modified by the Joint Research Centre. The data source was the [EDGARv7.0_GHG website](https://edgar.jrc.ec.europa.eu/dataset_ghg70) provided by Crippa *et. al.* (2022) and with [DOI](https://data.europa.eu/doi/10.2904/JRC_DATASET_EDGAR).*

The dataset contains three sheets - `IPCC 2006`, `1PCC 1996`, and `TOTALS BY COUNTRY` on the amount of CO2 (a greenhouse gas) generated by countries between 1970 and 2021. **You can download the dataset from your workspace or inspect the dataset directly [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cNhVUPKYP79AayGJp89_tXCJmHoxQO4cwiaseSziwbY/edit#gid=191680117)**.

### TOTALS BY COUNTRY SHEET

This sheet contains the annual CO2 (kt) produced between 1970 - 2021 in each country. The relevant columns in this sheet are:

| Columns | Description |
| ------- | ------------|
| `C_group_IM24_sh` | The region of the world |
| `Country_code_A3` | The country code |
| `Name`            | The name of the country |
| `Y_1970 - Y_2021` | The amount of CO2 (kt) from 1970 - 2021 |


### IPCC 2006

These sheets contain the amount of CO2 by country and the industry responsible. 

| Columns | Description |
| ------- | ------------|
| `C_group_IM24_sh` | The region of the world |
| `Country_code_A3` | The country code |
| `Name`            | The name of the country |
| `Y_1970 - Y_2021` | The amount of CO2 (kt) from 1970 - 2021 |
| `ipcc_code_2006_for_standard_report_name` | The industry responsible for generating CO2 ~~|~~



## Instructions

The head of analytics in your organization has specifically asked you to do the following:


1. Clean and tidy the datasets. 
2. Create a line plot to show the trend of `CO2` levels across the African regions.
3. Determine the relationship between time (`Year`) and `CO2` levels across the African regions.
4. Determine if there is a significant difference in the `CO2` levels among the African Regions.
5. Determine the most common (top 5) industries in each African region.
6. Determine the industry responsible for the most amount of CO2 (on average) in each African Region.
7. Predict the `CO2` levels (at each African region) in the year 2025.
8. Determine if `CO2` levels affect annual `temperature` in the selected African countries.

### Project Description

This project analyzes the relationship between temperature and CO2 emissions for four African countries: Ethiopia, Mozambique, Nigeria, and Tunisia. The analysis uses data to create a scatter plot of temperature vs log base 10 of CO2 emissions for each country. The scatter plot shows a positive correlation between temperature and CO2 emissions for all countries.
